# U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics API Interactor
## Purpose
The purpose of this package is to facilitate a user's interaction with the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics API in connection with their personal interests and summarize and visualize the results in a Pandas Dataframe and PyPlot line plot. The data requested from the API is the U.S. city average, non-seasonally adjusted, Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers by month.

## Pre-requisities
The following Python packages must be installed before using the module:

- pandas 
- requests
- json
- ip2geotools
- python-dotenv
- os
- matplotlib

## Set-up
The module works with V2 of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics API, which requires a personal API key. A blank .env file is provided with a place to insert your API key, which you can sign up for [here](https://data.bls.gov/registrationEngine/).

## Methods
**def \_\_init\_\_(self, interest):**

This is the initializer of the class.

Attributes:

-   api_key: the user’s api_key for the database stored in the .env file
    
-   interest: the user’s interest
    
-   interest_Series: a list of series codes that relate to the user’s interest
    
-   data: the relevant data from the database
    
-   startyear: the start year of the data
    
-   endyear: the end year of the data
    
Parameters:
-   Interest: the user’s interest. Other functions in the class will use this to find series relevant to this interest.
    

Return: 
- None

**get_api_key(self):**

This function gets the api key stored in the .env file for the user.

Parameters: 
- None

Returns:

-   the api key so that the user is able to request the data from the BLS API

**def set_interest_Series(self):**

Function to generate a list of relevant codes related to a user’s keyword input related to their interests.

Parameters:

-   self (to initialize an object of the class, user already inputs an interest keyword)

Return:

-   N/A (does not return anything, only updates values).

**def get_request(self, start_year, end_year, series_list = None):**

This function runs the API request to get the data from the BLS API related to specific series codes and assigns it to the self.data attribute.

Parameters:
-   start_year: the year that the user will start begin getting data from
    
-   end_year: the last year that the user will get data from
    
-   series_list: The default value for this is none. If the user does not specify a list of series codes, the function will use the series codes that were generated by set_interest_Series().
 
Returns: 
- None

**def error_handling(self, response):**
*Note: Nested and run in the get_request() method*

This function handles the two error messages that a user might encounter with a failed API request by letting a user know if their request succeeded or failed, and ending their interaction with the program if the request fails or is not processed.

Parameters:
-   response: the response from the BLS API server

Returns: 
- None

**def summary_stats(self):**

Function to generate summary stats of the specified series.

Parameters: 
- self (self.data already an attribute of the class)

Return: 
- N/A (does not return anything, instead prints out the summary stats in a clean manner)

**def visualizer(self):**

Function to generate plots demonstrating change over time in the consumer price index.

Parameters: 
- self (self.data, self.startyear, self.endyear already an attribute of the class that gets updated).

Return: 
- N/A (does not return anything, instead generates a plot)

